= Ximate

ApproXIMATE fuzzy search for Ruby on Rails activerecord models.

=== Requirements

* Rails >= 3.0.1


=== Installation

    gem install ximate

== Usage

In your model puts some like this:

    class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
      define_index do
        add_text title, 3
        add_text keywords.join(' '), 2
        add_text body(:en)
      end
    end

In this case we can perform an appoximate search on title, keywords and body fields of posts
where title is most important than keywords than body (title have priority 3, keywords 2 and body 1).

You can also define indexes for different locales like this:

    class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
      [:en, :it, :de].each do |locale|
        define_index(locale) do
          add_text title(locale)
          add_text body(locale)
        end
      end
    end

Then you can perform a search

    Post.asearch('Hello world').where(:public => true).limit(5)

+asearch+ method is chainable with the usual activerecord methods.

The cool stuff is that if you search with

    Post.asearch('Hello worlds').where(:public => true)

the results will be the same!
The error allowed by Ximate can be expressed as a percentage by setting the option <tt>Ximate::OPTIONS[:match_error_percent]</tt>.
Default value is 20%.

Finally you can set some Ximate options in your initializers.

    Ximate::OPTIONS[:match_error_percent] = 20
    Ximate::OPTIONS[:ignore_word_short_than] = 2
    Ximate::OPTIONS[:logger] = true
    Ximate::OPTIONS[:debug] = false

=== Ordering

You can order the results by rank (calculate by Ximate)

    Post.asearch('Hello world').order('rank DESC').where(:public => true)

Unfortunately to do this, Ximate use the +FIELD+ function supported only by MySQL.
So __the ordering by rank works only with MySQL__.

== Questions or problems?

If you have any issues please add an {issue on
GitHub}[https://github.com/pioz/ximate/issues] or fork the project and
send a pull request.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Enrico Pilotto. MIT license.
